Thank you.
I also want to thank a lot of all the other people who were asking to come here.
Because I plan an absolutely wonderful couple of days to speak to you all.
I need to give you money all of you on every program, and it's quite wonderful.
I'm going to leave the name smaller.
For now, if anybody wants to ask me anything about money, I'm going to waste my time.
But Joyce, oh, we were talking about...
When somebody asked me a question, I think it was like, .
When we were talking about people who were in my mental state, one or another, and I just said something, I checked off.
I said, no, I mean, I always liked him, but he was sort of part of the household, you know?
He talked like everybody at home.
But I didn't think, when I thought later, I didn't feel good.
Of course, people my age, when I went to school, at their work school, which I was only a little bit worried, I did think a lot about Jewish.
The more I thought of the films later on, maybe about 15 years after I wrote a book or two, I realized that those stories in their form, somewhere or another, really were somehow in my head in a way that, you know, other words really seem to have very little,
I mean, I didn't recognize what it was.
But I think that's where the critics part of this organization comes in.
They sort of tell you what, you know, who it comes to and so forth.
And I'm literally glad if you stop.
But I do think, again and again, well, I don't know if you are behind me, but mostly until I, you know,
Mostly I was doing some poetry until the time I heard stories.
I was going to have people's stories in the back, but it came back home.
Was that poetry or story?
Why?
Because we talked about this today.
Why did I say that?
What questions have you been answering to yourself?
Maybe someone would do that.
Who said that?
No, I thought I should give you a chance, another little bit of a chance before.
Yes?
Would you write, would you chuckle, would you suppose?
Not really, you know.
I think sometimes when you read stuff aloud, I say, oh, that came out kind of funny.
No, I don't really.
I mean, I don't want to say thank you for myself.
I read aloud.
I mean, I work aloud, so I read aloud to myself a lot.
Why did you pick the main place for the show?
Well, it's really kind of a silly answer to that.
It's just that I thought I was going to do a whole series called The Story Here and The Story Telling.
I also had an idea that somewhere in the end of my first book, this woman, Faith, appeared, but she didn't have a name.
And I thought, oh.
I'm going to have these, I'm talking about trying to make jokes.
See, when you try to make these jokes, it doesn't work, right?
When you know you're writing them.
So I made this joke.
I was thinking I was going to have Faith, Hope and Charlie.
And a lot of the way, I think it starts with the name Faith, which is very close to Grace, and people have invested with all their loans.
It's great, which is
The person who works for me.
When you write, what kind of, can you hear?
When you write, what kind of audience do you imagine if you do?
I don't.
I mean, you know, I read a lot, but it's very different.
I don't think about it too much.
Sometimes, sometimes I write something, you know, kind of to the borderline of someone.
I have a story called a friend who just really, I don't know if I had a friend of mine who could die.
And I don't really imagine the audience, but I do hope that, I hope for, I hope for the five people that are here that are here, except for the campus audience.
Two questions.
Do you rewrite a lot or do you revise and so on?
Yes.
And then do you type while you're in the computer or what?
I type.
I write my hand and I type.
But I do go over a lot, a lot, a lot.
I've just finished a...
a preface or a production of something to the journals of Asikov's wife of his last seven years.
And then included in it is a book
It's actually not in the journals, although it's discussed somewhere in the journals, and I discuss it also.
But in an old book, like Faustan is being called, or a story like Uncle the Witch, he had a long conversation about Zimbabwe.
When you ask me that question, I feel like I haven't done the job yet, because he describes, he hands Puskassi a batch of magazines like this, and Puskassi says to him, oh, at least you're getting to work.
And he says, no, this is only, this is the story of Bilbo the Cossack.
It's just one story, and he describes rewriting it.
many times.
And he also wrote so much about rewriting and just how he does it.
It's very humanistic because I do a lot of it myself.
I really do a lot of work that I work finally, you know, after I made sure that I've done a lot of art and stuff.
But he goes through all this describing finitely how he works.
And then in the last part he says, he says, he says, but the one thing, you must make sure not to rule the story by overworking.
So you're going to have to be careful with that kind of thing.
But I don't believe you can.
I really don't believe that.
People like to say that it becomes interesting.
I think he boiled it down all the time.
He boiled it down for a very short break.
Is that the same as you?
Oh no, a lot of times I aired things.
I mean, I think he probably aired things.
And he changed them so much.
I mean, he changed them so much, he sort of showed them this manuscript that it was, you know, probably both.
That happens a lot right.
It's everybody's first master.
I hope.
What do you think of the fact that your stories are anthologized and taught to freshmen in introductory fiction classes and analyzed in 50 minutes?
Does that give you the willies?
Does it feel good?
I mean, I did that last semester.
Well, I feel like that.
I mean, I don't feel good about being taken apart too much because I was very bad at that as a student.
I was hopeless as a critical writer or anything like that.
I could normally tell you what a story was about, unless it had a very clear plot line.
So I feel like that, but I feel good that people are reading their expressions.
They like them.
The students like them.
That's really nice.
But on the other hand,
Yet people don't always understand what you said, you know.
So you go there.
Like that.
And don't know what to do.
It doesn't mean to do that.
You write the story.
What?
Do you have a favorite one or two of your own stories?
No.
I mean, you know, I like probably the ones that somebody has said to me, you know, avoiding stories, I'm in most trouble with that one.
Do you know if I have a sense of necessity?
I mean, that is, writing has been a matter of choice for you?
Do you mean for money, like living?
No, no, I'm, well, I've never been a person, of course, so it's something you must do.
Well, aren't they the same thing?
No, I write stories that I have to write, pretty much.
I really don't write a story unless I really have to write it.
I might write something else.
My brother's home, though I have to run.
But I don't, I tend to, I have a lot of papers around and a lot of writing on it, so, but I don't go on with it and tell the story in America and then I have to write it.
And there's a lot of pressure involved.
I'm sure everybody is doing the same thing.
Except, you know, when you do stuff on assignments.
I'm always saying this in classes where the kids have to pack the gifts up on assignments.
I say, well, you know, I've got a lot of pressure to write that story.
And then they say, yeah, the teacher said they'll have to have it in that grade.
It's a different pressure.
Oh.
I mean, if I'm in a minute or something, I can go along, but mostly I don't.
I mean, unless I'm really in the middle of the story, even a very short one.
How many hours?
I don't count.
How many is a matter of breakfast or lunch or eat?
but i i i there are people who really work all day long and they you know
Well, I mean, in a bit of a little story, I've worked a lot of the day, and working on this last piece that I worked on, I worked most of the day, but I can't say, I have to say in between times, I really am not like that.
Yeah.
Usually at this conference, when the word political comes up, it's a bad alternative to literature.
There are often spoken on this, but we're here to talk mainly about literature.
Your work would be a challenge to that.
When people are reading and regarding literature, thinking about it, what about the political when it comes to evaluating what is good, is it not the good?
Do you think it's easy to put the political aside or is that a mistake?
Well, I'm a political person naturally, and it would be very unnatural to me if I am politically.
I have a lot of feelings for literature, too.
I mean, really, really a neat feeling.
But at the same time, I've been a political person really from childhood.
It's very natural for me to have strong political feelings.
I've definitely known people like that, so if that's in both these stories in a way, although you can't say the political environment, in a way, something to program, the people are a little bit.
They're thinking about these things.
It's a funny question because it's an American question, isn't it?
I mean, you wouldn't have anybody in South America say, oh no, we can do it, we can live with our literature.
That would be a joke.
If possible, or in Europe, in general, in most places.
I consider that everything is pretty political, no matter what position you have and where you are.
So that, I mean, I, I, I, um, I mean, I haven't talked about everything about this, um, about this context of these two days here, but, um, I have, I didn't wonder about, uh, about me in it to be full of science.
I am, I'm dead below, you know, I'm not very literary or critical than, uh,
So I am very political.
And I think that nothing happens without a political movement.
I mean, since you guys have a question or answer, this is not a question I would get.
I mean, nothing happens without a political movement, and that's what's really interesting to me.
I think that we're a very interesting time, actually.
I don't think it's so terrible.
I think as a citizen of the United States,
It's very interesting that so many different voices are heard that never were heard or hardly ever heard.
But none of those voices would exist without political movements behind them.
I'll give you an example.
I, as a feminist,
Who's going to say it?
Well, that's right.
It's a lot of guys who say it.
I miss them all.
But I was very pleased to see the young women on each panel.
And I haven't had, in my own time, ten years ago, a great struggle with my own organization, Ken,
where they had panels, where they had a poetry reading with ten men and one women.
I know that if this conference was taking place many years ago, you might rather have been so joyful, even when women might have been so joyful.
And I think that it's a political movement that has made that happen everywhere and here.
And here because people aren't thoughtful.
I mean that's the reason it's happened not because it's political movement but because people are extraordinarily, whether they admit it or not.
And I feel that if
that if there's black literature, it's because there's a black movement there to serve it and to be served by it.
So that's my general feeling about the importance of the fact that all Americans now are being heard from.
Are they all great writers?
No, you know, so what?
I mean, you have to, you have to, you know, you have to be a little girl before you get into a big one.
And there are wonderful Native American writers, like Leslie Martin, who still goes next to this.
Wonderful person.
So she wouldn't exist without the pressure of a developing Native American little girl.
Which contemporary writers do you particularly admire?
Well, I read a lot, and in a way that's bad, because I enjoy reading so much.
There's a very funny book called, that Mencham's voice just wrote, it's called Rune by Reading.
It's really about someone who reads someone that you should get to the end of what she's reading.
You get to these arguments with her daughter about Monique Dick and her academic memory.
It's a work that's very kind of good.
Who are you talking about?
I like a couple of people that you don't know about, I mean, because I like people.
I mean, I like 20 months, and I like to remember everything I'm talking about.
Um, I like, um, um, you were talking about before, this is by Cal Phillips, he's over there, you know, over there in Amherst.
Yeah, that I, that was a cool book I liked very much.
I liked a woman named Carolyn Schwiller, who you may not know very well.
She had a book come out.
Not a woman, though, but what I really liked was the first people.
It's very smart and very, very intelligent and very funny and inventive.
But she just didn't catch.
I mean, for lots of funny reasons, like we were talking about this at the table.
She missed a couple of prizes by, you know, by, I should say, by a bearded breath or so.
And had she won them, she said something would impact.
So a lot of people need help in those respects.
Well, I think lots of people.
There's a wonderful story, there's a book that cannot be difficult, I just want to talk to you about it, and it's called God Snake by Dean Stanley, and that's a great book.
And then there are people that people like in general and a lot of people I don't like to say that a lot too.
I think there's an interesting word.
You know, when you talk about grave, not grave, then I have no idea what anyone's talking about.
I don't understand.
I mean, how do they talk about it when, you know, like,
I thought, you know, nobody stopped writing.
We couldn't let everybody say it was so funny, you know?
Or hardy, you know?
I mean, poor Philly, it's driven to the poetry, which, thank God, someone that had one of his great poems today, it was a great experience, hearing the poems.
Listen, thank you all for having me.
Thank you.